# Audio Encoder Library Help

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 Audio Help Summary](GUID-546D2D8B-EC03-4BF5-B23F-D618F41955FB.md)

## Purpose

This section provides descriptions of the software Encoder Libraries that are available in MPLAB Harmony.

### ADPCM Encoder Library

#### *Introduction*

Adaptive Differential Pulse Code Modulation \(ADPCM\) is a royalty-free audio codec. It is a lossy compression standard. It is a variant of Differential Pulse-Code Modulation \(DPCM\). The file format used to contain an ADPCM files, is the same as WAV.

Its popularity comes because it achieves compression of 4 to 1 but does not require high processing power.

Typical applications using ADPCM are for speech. This implementation currently supports 16 bit stereo.

ADPCM Ecncoder Library

***Using the Library***

#### *Library Interface*

**Functions**

|**Name**|**Description**|
|--------|---------------|
|adpcm\_encoder\_init|This is function adpcm\_encoder\_init.|
|adpcm\_encode\_frame|This is function adpcm\_encode\_frame.|
|adpcm\_encoder\_config\_byteorder|This is function adpcm\_encoder\_config\_byteorder.|
|adpcm\_encoder\_free|This is function adpcm\_encoder\_free.|

**Description**

#### Functions

##### adpcm\_encoder\_init Function

This is function adpcm\_encoder\_init.

**bool** **adpcm\_encoder\_init**\(void\);

##### adpcm\_encode\_frame Function

This is function adpcm\_encode\_frame.

**bool** **adpcm\_encode\_frame**\(**void** \* **pin**, uint32\_t **insize**, **void** \* **pout**, uint32\_t \* **outsize**\);

##### adpcm\_encode\_frame Function

adpcm\_encoder\_config\_byteorder Function

This is function adpcm\_encoder\_config\_byteorder.

**void** **adpcm\_encoder\_config\_byteorder**\(**bool** **isLE**\);

##### adpcm\_encode\_frame Function

adpcm\_encoder\_free Function

This is function adpcm\_encoder\_free.

**bool** **adpcm\_encoder\_free**\(void\);

**Data Types and Constants**

#### Files

**Files**

|**Name**|**Description**|
|--------|---------------|
|adpcm\_enc.h|Contains the ADPCM encoder specific defintions and function prototypes.|

**Description**

##### adpcm\_enc.h

adpcm\_enc.h

**Summary**

Contains the ADPCM encoder specific defintions and function prototypes.

**Description**

ADPCM Decoder Header File

This file contains the ADPCM encoder specific defintions and function prototypes.

### PCM Encoder Library

#### *Introduction*

The PCM encoder is a royalty-free audio codec. It is a lossless standard and there is no compression.

It can typically be used to share speech; share music; create files to playback by older/slower processors. This implementation currently supports 16 bit stereo. The sample rate can vary widely.

***Using the Library***

#### *Library Interface*

**Functions**

|**Name**|**Description**|
|--------|---------------|
|pcm\_encoder\_init|This is function pcm\_encoder\_init.|
|pcm\_encoder\_free|This is function pcm\_encoder\_free.|

**Description**

#### Functions

##### pcm\_encoder\_init Function

This is function pcm\_encoder\_init.

**bool** **pcm\_encoder\_init**\(**int** **channel**, **int** **inputSampleRate**\);

##### pcm\_encode\_frame Function

This is function pcm\_encode\_frame.

**bool** **pcm\_encode\_frame**\(**void** \* **pin**, uint32\_t **insize**, **void** \* **pout**, uint32\_t \* **outsize**\);

##### pcm\_encoder\_free Function

This is function pcm\_encoder\_free.

**bool** **pcm\_encoder\_free**\(void\);

**Data Types and Constants**

#### Files

**Files**

|**Name**|**Description**|
|--------|---------------|
|pcm\_enc.h|WAV Encoder Header File|

